\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename orgadoc.info
@include version.texi
@settitle GNU OrgaDoc @value{VERSION}
@setchapternewpage off 

@finalout

@synindex fn cp
@synindex vr cp
@synindex tp cp

@copying

This manual is for @acronym{GNU} OrgaDoc (version @value{VERSION},
@value{UPDATED})

Copyright @copyright{} 2003, 2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the @acronym{GNU} Free Documentation License,
Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with the Front-Cover texts
being ``A @acronym{GNU} Manual,'' and with the Back-Cover Texts as in
(a) below.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``@acronym{GNU} Free Documentation License.''

(a) The @acronym{FSF}'s Back-Cover Text is: ``You have freedom to copy
and modify this @acronym{GNU} Manual, like @acronym{GNU} software.
Copies published by the Free Software Foundation raise funds for
@acronym{GNU} development.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory GNU programming tools
@direntry
* orgadoc: (orgadoc).       Organizes documents from XML descriptions
@end direntry

@ifset shorttitlepage-enabled
@shorttitlepage GNU OrgaDoc
@end ifset
@titlepage
@title GNU OrgaDoc User Manual
@subtitle Organizes documents from XML descriptions
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}, GNU OrgaDoc Version @value{VERSION}

@author by Julien Lemoine. Maintained by Adam Bilbrough.

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@sp 2
Published by the Free Software Foundation @*
59 Temple Place, Suite 330 @*
Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA @*
Printed copies are available from the Free Software Foundation.@*
@acronym{ISBN} 1-882114-44-2
@sp 2
Cover art by Etienne Suvasa.
@end titlepage

@contents

@node Top
@top Copyright
@insertcopying

@menu
* Goals of orgadoc:: 
* Installation:: 
* GNU OrgaDoc features:: 
* How to use it:: 
* Templates:: 
* Configuration file:: 
* Usage of GNU OrgaDoc with CVS:: 
* CGI binary:: 
@end menu

@node Goals of orgadoc
@chapter Goals of orgadoc
@cindex goals

GNU OrgaDoc has been designed to easily copy and maintain a pool of
documents between computers. You can synchronize your document(s) pool
with rsync or unison. You don't need to install a database server
(like MySql or PostgreSql), a HTTP server, a script language (like
php, perl, ...). You only need OrgaDoc to generate html pages and to
perform queries.

GNU OrgaDoc is easy to use, only the creation of some xml files
describing your documents is needed. These files can be generated, read the
section (@pxref{How to use it}) for details.

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

Required software to compile GNU OrgaDoc:
@itemize @bullet
@item An eiffel compiler : SmartEiffel for example;
@item Gobo library
@end itemize

Required software to run orgadoc_init_readmes:
@itemize @bullet
@item pdfinfo which is a part of xpdf (pdfinfo is in the xpdf-utils
package on GNU/Linux distributions such as Trisquel GNU/Linux).
@end itemize

GNU OrgaDoc uses the autoconf/automake facilities, therefore the end user
 should use the provided configure script (some options are available)
 to generate architecture specific builds.      

First of all, environment variables have to be defined if your
compiler and libraries are not located in the standard path. Here is a
list of variables:
@verbatim
GOBO_EIFFEL: specify the eiffel vendor (se, ise or ve), default value
is se (for Smart Eiffel)
GOBO: specify the location of the gobo library, default path is
/usr/lib/gobo
SmartEiffel: give the location of SmartEiffel cluster, for exemple :
/usr/lib/smarteiffel/sys/system.se
@end verbatim

To compile GNU OrgaDoc, run these commands in user mode:
@verbatim
tar xzvf orgadoc-0.8.0.tar.gz
cd orgadoc-0.8.0
./configure
make
@end verbatim
and to install GNU OrgaDoc, run in super user mode:
@verbatim
make install
@end verbatim

@node GNU OrgaDoc features
@chapter OrgaDoc features

GNU Orgadoc uses XML files to describe your document(s) and convert them to
another format using one of the available backends:
@itemize @bullet
@item HTML: generates a tree of HTML files, you can easily browse into your
  documentation;
@item Bibtex: convert your documents pool into a bibtex file for reference
  into LaTex documents;
@item Latex: generates a latex document with the details of your
 documents base, you can compile this into a pdf or ps file.
@item Ast : dump the documents pool into ascii
@end itemize
GNU Orgadoc also includes a search tool to perform regex queries on the
document pool and a CGI mode to enable queries via html.

@node How to use it
@chapter How to use it
@cindex howto
A directory hierarchy of documentation is needed, for example:

@verbatim
artificial_intelligence
artificial_intelligence/neural_networks
artificial_intelligence/pattern_recognition
graphics
graphics/rendering
graphics/nurbs
...
@end verbatim

To describe documents which are in these directories, you
need to have an xml file for each directory which describes them. This file
contains a <document> node for each document of this directory.
A document node contains a number of subnodes:

@itemize @bullet
@item title: the title of the document;
@item file: the filename or the directory of the document
@item nbpages: the number of pages;
@item type: you can flag the document public or private, this option
  is useful if you want to create a public documentation server and
  you do not have the correct permission to diffuse all documents;
@item date: creation date of the document;
@item language: language the document was written in;
@item summary : short resume of the document (useful for searching on
  your document pool);
@item url : the url where you downloaded the document;
@item part : you can give the principal chapter or section of your
  document;
@item author : authors of the document;
@item comment : this node is designed to add some comments about your
  document. Comments are split into two subnodes ``author_name'' and
  ``content'' (see the example below).
@end itemize

Here is an example of an xml file describing a directory:
@verbatim
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<readme>
  <document>
    <title>An Introduction To Neural Networks</title>
    <file>neuro-intro.ps</file>
    <nbpages>135</nbpages>
    <type>public</type>
    <author>Ben Krose, Patrick van der Smagt</author>
    <date>November 1996</date>
    <language>English</language>
    <summary>Neural networks, terminology, theory, topoloy,
    applications, implementations</summary>
    <part>Introduction and terminology</part>
    <part>Perceptron and Adaline</part>
    <part>Back-propagation</part>
    <part>Recurrent Networks</part>
    <part>Self-Organising Networks</part>
    <part>Reinforcement learning</part>
    <part>Applications (vision, robotics, etc...)</part>
    <url>http://www.domain.com/document/file.ps</url>
    <part>Implementations (software, hardware, etc...)</part>
    <comment>   
      <author_name>Julien Lemoine</author_name>
      <content>This is a comment</content>
    </comment>
  </document>
 <document>
    <title>Neural Network and Its Application in IR</title>
    <file>uiuclis--1999-5+irg.pdf</file>
    <nbpages>31</nbpages>
    <type>public</type>
    <author>Qin He</author>
    <date>1999</date>
    <language>English</language>
    <summary>neural networks and applications in information retrieval
    systems.</summary>
  </document>
</readme>
@end verbatim

Some documentation can contain a piece of this information, for example pdf
documents contains the author, the number of pages...
This information can be extracted using the orgadoc_init_readmes script.
This script takes a directory as an argument, explores it recursively and generates a readme.xml file for each directory
containing extractable information. XML sections that can not be
extracted are filled with a FIXME.

Example of orgadoc_init_readmes usage:
@verbatim
$ orgadoc_init_readmes docs
Entering directory [docs]
Leaving directory [docs]
Entering directory [docs/artifical_intelligence]
Leaving directory [docs/artifical_intelligence]
Entering directory [docs/artifical_intelligence/neural_networks]
Leaving directory [docs/artifical_intelligence/neural_networks]
Entering directory [docs/artifical_intelligence/pattern_recognition]
Leaving directory [docs/artifical_intelligence/pattern_recognition]
Entering directory [docs/graphics]
Leaving directory [docs/graphics]
Entering directory [docs/graphics/nurbs]
Leaving directory [docs/graphics/nurbs]
Entering directory [docs/graphics/rendering]
Leaving directory [docs/graphics/rendering]

readme.xml files are now created, please edit the FIXME lines
$
@end verbatim
Example of the generated readme.xml file:
@verbatim
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<readme>
<document>
<title>Neural Nets Report.PDF</title>
<file>uiuclis--1999-5+irg.pdf</file>
<date>Tue Aug 17 17:19:35 1999</date>
<type>public</public>
<author>Qin He</author>
<nbpages>31</nbpages>
<language>FIXME: LANGUAGE</language>
<summary>FIXME: SUMMARY</summary>
<part>FIXME: PART</part>
</document>
</readme>
@end verbatim

@node Templates
@chapter Templates

GNU Orgadoc supports many backends. For each backend it uses a template to
output data in a particular way. Templates are located in
/usr/local/etc/orgadoc/templates, you can edit them to personalize your backend
output. A template consists of four files (orgadoc replaces
specific tokens by data in these files, for example %%TITLE%% is
replaced by the title of the document)
@itemize @bullet
@item global.tpl: gives the global aspect of the output;
@item document.tpl: gives the output aspect for a document;
@item comment.tpl: gives the output aspect for a comment;
@item link.tpl: gives the output aspect for link between documents
  (for html documents).
@end itemize

There are currently five GNU OrgaDoc backends:
@itemize @bullet
@item ast : this template is used when you perform a query using the orgadoc command
  line binary;
@item bibtex : this template is used to convert the orgadoc format
  into a bibtex file to use your document pool in a LaTex document;
@item cgi: this template is used to generate a suitable output for the cgi
  binary, it generates html output;
@item html: used for html tree creation;
@item latex: this template is used to generate a LaTex document with
  a small description for each document.
@end itemize


Once all of the xml files have been written, the OrgaDoc
binary can be used to generate a html tree describing these documents
(or any other kind of backend) and perform queries on your document
pool using the OrgaDoc binary (orgadoc -s) or the cgi binary.
For details on the OrgaDoc binary, please consult the man page.

@node Configuration file
@chapter Configuration file

The OrgaDoc configuration file uses the standard UNIX format for
configuration files, you can comment a line with the character #.

Here is a list of configuration variables and their use:
@itemize @bullet
@item XmlFile: name of xml file to read (default: readme.xml);
@item HtmlFile: name of html file to generate (default: index.html);
@item BibTexFile: name of bibtex file to generate (default: orgadoc.bib);
@item LaTexFile: name of latex file to generate (default: orgadoc.tex);
@item InputPath: path where xml files are stored;
@item OutputPath: path to store html files;
@item EnablePrivateDoc: Boolean (True or False), if false OrgaDoc will
  restrict generation to public document;
@item Mode: HTML, DISPLAY, BIBTEX or LATEX. Choose the default mode
  for OrgaDoc output;
@item Recursive: Boolean (True of False), if True, OrgaDoc will
  explore ImputPath recursivelly;
@item TemplatePath: Path where orgadoc will read the template documents
  (default: /usr/local/etc/orgadoc/templates);
@item HttpdDocPath: Httpd prefix (prefix added when OrgaDoc generates
  href).
@end itemize

Example of orgadoc.conf file:
@verbatim
XmlFile                 = readme.xml
HtmlFile                = index.html
BibTexFile              = orgadoc.bib
LaTexFile               = orgadoc.tex
InputPath               = /var/www/docs/xml/orgadoc
OutputPath              = /var/www/docs/html
HttpdDocPath            = http://docs.happycoders.org
Mode                    = HTML
EnablePrivateDoc        = True
Recursive               = True
TemplatePath            = /usr/local/etc/orgadoc/templates
@end verbatim

@node Usage of GNU OrgaDoc with CVS
@chapter Usage of OrgaDoc with CVS
When more than one person uses OrgaDoc to manage a pool of
documents, there is some synchronization problems with xml
files. To solve this problem, the suggested solution is to store xml
files in a CVS server. Keeping xml files in a different directory
than documentation is not a problem for OrgaDoc, therefore storing xml
files in CVS works fine. You simply need to do ``cvs update''
before running OrgaDoc.

To simplify the upload of documentation on a main server, a script is
provided with OrgaDoc. It commits a readme.xml file and uploads the document onto a server with SCP. A readme.xml file and a section have to be supplied and
the script will do the rest.

For example:
@verbatim
./orgadoc_add_docs /tmp/readme.xml artificial_intelligence/neural_networks
@end verbatim
will commit changes into the readme.xml file of
artificial_intelligence/neural_networks section and SCP new
documentation files.

@node CGI binary
@chapter CGI binary
You can use the OrgaDoc cgi binary to perform regex search on your
document pool, you simply need to send the query variable to cgi.

Here is an example of a HTML form to use with this cgi:
@verbatim
<FORM ACTION="cgi-bin/orgadoc_cgi" xmethod="PRE">
<P>Regexp search :
<INPUT NAME="query" SIZE="10">
<INPUT TYPE="SUBMIT" VALUE="Search">
</FORM>
@end verbatim

@bye
